Scorecard2 user docs (#3063)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: website/content/en/docs/scorecard/scorecard-alpha.md

Scorecard has built-in basic and OLM tests but also provides a 
means to execute custom user defined tests.

## Requirements

The scorecard tests make no assumptions as to the state of the 
operator being tested.  Creating operators and custom resources 
for an operator are left outside the scope of the scorecard itself.

Scorecard tests can however create whatever resources they 
require if the tests are designed for resource creation.

## Running the Scorecard

1. Define a scorecard configuration file `config.yaml`.  A sample 
configuration file [config.yaml][sample-config] is found within 
the SDK repository. See [Config file](#config-file) for an explaination 
of the configuration file format.  Unless you are executing custom 
tests, you can just copy the provided example configuration file 
into your project.
2. Place the scorecard configuration file within your project 
bundle directory a the following location `tests/scorecard/config.yaml`.  
You can override the default location of the configuration file 
by specifying the `--config` flag.
3. Execute the [`scorecard` command][cli-scorecard]. See the 
[Command args](#command-args) to check its options.

## Configuration

> The scorecard test execution is driven by a configuration file, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scorecard test execution is driven by a configuration file typically named
```

> `config.yaml`.   The configuration file is located at the following 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`config.yaml`. The configuration file is located at the following 
```

tests/scorecard/config.yaml
```

### Config File

A complete scorecard configuration file can be found [here][sample-config] 
and used for running the scorecard pre-defined tests that ship with the SDK.

A sample of the scorecard configuration file may look as follows:

```yaml
tests:
- name: "basic-check-spec"

>   image: quay.io/operator-framework/scorecard-test:dev

Reviewer 2: Hi @jmccormick2001 just realized. 
- This image does not exist
- And then, should we not have tags which match with the SDK ones instead of it?

following fields of the scorecard configuration file define the test 
as follows:

 
| Config Field        | Description   |
| --------    | -------- |
| image | the test container image name that implements a test 
| entrypoint | the command and arguments that are invoked in the test image to execute a test
| labels | user defined labels that allow for test selection using the scorecard CLI `--selector` flag

### Command Args

The scorecard command has the following syntax:
```
operator-sdk alpha scorecard [bundle path] | [bundle image name] [flags]
```

The scorecard requires a positional argument that holds either the
on-disk path to your operator bundle or the name of a bundle image.

Scorecard flags are documented [here][cli-scorecard].

## Selecting Tests

Scorecard users can specify a `--selector` CLI flag to filter which 
tests it will execute.  If a selector flag is not supplied, then all 
the tests within the scorecard configuration file are executed.

Tests are executed serially, one after the other, with test results 
being aggregated by scorecard to present back to the end user.

To select a single test, basic-check-spec-test, you would enter the
following:
```sh

> operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=test=basic-check-spec-test

Reviewer: Nit: console-style code blocks
```suggestion
$ operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=test=basic-check-spec-test
```

```

To select a suite of tests, olm in this case, you would specify
a label that is used by all the OLM tests:
```sh
operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=suite=olm
```

To select multiple tests, you could specify them as follows:
```sh
operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector='test in (basic-check-spec-test,olm-bundle-validation-test)'
```

## Built-in Tests

The scorecard ships with pre-defined tests that are arranged into suites.

### Basic Test Suite

| Test        | Description   | Test Name |
| --------    | -------- | -------- |

> | Spec Block Exists | This test checks the Custom Resource(s) created in the cluster to make sure that all CRs have a spec block. | basic-check-spec-test |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| Spec Block Exists | This test checks the Custom Resource (CRs) created in the cluster to make sure that all CRs have a spec block. | basic-check-spec-test |
```

Also I'm not sure whether "Custom Resources" is canonically title upper-cased.

### OLM Test Suite

| Test        | Description   | Short Name |
| --------    | -------- | -------- |

> | OLM Bundle Validation | This test validates the OLM bundle manifests found in the bundle that is passed into scorecard.  If the bundle contents contain errors, then the test result output will include the validator log as well as error messages from the validation library.  See this [document][olm-bundle] for details on OLM bundles.| olm-bundle-validation-test |

Reviewer: Bundles aren't strictly specific to OLM
```suggestion
| Bundle Validation | This test validates the bundle manifests found in the bundle that is passed into scorecard.  If the bundle contents contain errors, then the test result output will include the validator log as well as error messages from the validation library.  See this [document][olm-bundle] for details on bundles.| olm-bundle-validation-test |
```

| Status Fields With Descriptors | This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' status sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in the CSV.| olm-status-descriptors-test |

## Scorecard Output

Users can specify the `--output` flag to define the scorecard results 
output format.

### JSON format

See an example of the JSON format produced by a scorecard test:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "creationTimestamp": null
  },
  "log": "",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "basic-check-spec",
      "description": "Custom Resource has a Spec Block",
      "state": "pass"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Text format

See an example of the text format produced by a scorecard test:

```
	basic-check-spec                    : pass
	CR: 
	Labels: 
```

**NOTE** The results are done using the type [ScorecardOutput](https://godoc.org/github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha2#ScorecardOutput). 

## Exit Status

The scorecard return code is 1 if any of the tests executed did not 
pass and 0 if all selected tests pass.

## Extending the Scorecard with Custom Tests

> Scorecard can execute custom tests provided by ISVs or end users if 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scorecard will execute custom tests if 
```

---
title: Scorecard (alpha)
weight: 25
---

> # operator-sdk scorecard (alpha)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
Because: 
<img width="487" alt="Screenshot 2020-05-22 at 17 48 40" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/7708031/82690644-7e65ad00-9c54-11ea-8efc-ef502bb3fefb.png">

## Overview

The scorecard command, part of the operator-sdk, executes tests 
on your operator based upon a user defined configuration file 
and test images.

Tests are implemented within test images that are configured 
and constructed to be executed by scorecard.

Each test(s) is executed within a Pod by scorecard, pod logs 
contain the test results, and scorecard aggregates the test 

> results to display to end users.  Scorecard therefore assumes 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scorecard therefore assumes 
```

> results to display to end users.  Scorecard therefore assumes 

Author: agree,  I re-ordered to take this into account.

  entrypoint:
  - scorecard-test
  - basic-check-spec
  labels:
    suite: basic
    test: basic-check-spec-test
  description: check the spec test
- name: "olm-bundle-validation"
  image: quay.io/operator-framework/scorecard-test:dev
  entrypoint:
  - scorecard-test
  - olm-bundle-validation
  labels:
    suite: olm
    test: olm-bundle-validation-test
  description: validate the bundle test
```

The configuration file defines each test that scorecard can execute.  The 
following fields of the scorecard configuration file define the test 
as follows:

 
| Config Field        | Description   |
| --------    | -------- |
| image | the test container image name that implements a test 
| entrypoint | the command and arguments that are invoked in the test image to execute a test
| labels | user defined labels that allow for test selection using the scorecard CLI `--selector` flag

### Command Args

The scorecard command has the following syntax:
```
operator-sdk alpha scorecard [bundle path] | [bundle image name] [flags]
```

The scorecard requires a positional argument that holds either the
on-disk path to your operator bundle or the name of a bundle image.

> Scorecard flags are documented [here][cli-scorecard].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**NOTE:** For further information about the flags see the [CLI documentation][cli-scorecard].
```

Reviewer: I don't think this warrants a `NOTE`.

## Selecting Tests

Scorecard users can specify a `--selector` CLI flag to filter which 
tests it will execute.  If a selector flag is not supplied, then all 
the tests within the scorecard configuration file are executed.

Tests are executed serially, one after the other, with test results 
being aggregated by scorecard to present back to the end user.

> To select a single test, basic-check-spec-test, you would enter the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To select a single test (`basic-check-spec-test`) you would enter the
```

    "creationTimestamp": null
  },
  "log": "",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "basic-check-spec",
      "description": "Custom Resource has a Spec Block",
      "state": "pass"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Text format

See an example of the text format produced by a scorecard test:

```
	basic-check-spec                    : pass
	CR: 
	Labels: 
```

**NOTE** The results are done using the type [ScorecardOutput](https://godoc.org/github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha2#ScorecardOutput). 

## Exit Status

The scorecard return code is 1 if any of the tests executed did not 
pass and 0 if all selected tests pass.

## Extending the Scorecard with Custom Tests

Scorecard can execute custom tests provided by ISVs or end users if 
the custom tests following some mandated conventions including:

 * tests are implemented within a container image
 * tests accept an entrypoint which include a command and arguments
 * tests produce v1alpha2 scorecard output in JSON format with no extraneous logging in the test output
 * tests can obtain the bundle contents at a shared mount point of /bundle
 * tests can access the Kube API using an in-cluster client connection

> See here (TODO) for an example of a custom test image written in golang.  

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<!--- TODO(jeff): Add an example. 
See here for an example of a custom test image written in golang.  
-->

```

---
title: Scorecard (alpha)
weight: 25
---

## Overview

The scorecard command, part of the operator-sdk, executes tests 

> on your operator based upon a user defined configuration file 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
on your operator based upon a configuration file and test images.
```

> and test images.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

location within your bundle:
```
tests/scorecard/config.yaml
```

### Config File

A complete scorecard configuration file can be found [here][sample-config] 
and used for running the scorecard pre-defined tests that ship with the SDK.

A sample of the scorecard configuration file may look as follows:

```yaml
tests:
- name: "basic-check-spec"
  image: quay.io/operator-framework/scorecard-test:dev
  entrypoint:
  - scorecard-test
  - basic-check-spec
  labels:
    suite: basic
    test: basic-check-spec-test
  description: check the spec test
- name: "olm-bundle-validation"
  image: quay.io/operator-framework/scorecard-test:dev
  entrypoint:
  - scorecard-test
  - olm-bundle-validation
  labels:
    suite: olm
    test: olm-bundle-validation-test
  description: validate the bundle test
```

The configuration file defines each test that scorecard can execute.  The 
following fields of the scorecard configuration file define the test 
as follows:

 
| Config Field        | Description   |
| --------    | -------- |
| image | the test container image name that implements a test 
| entrypoint | the command and arguments that are invoked in the test image to execute a test

> | labels | user defined labels that allow for test selection using the scorecard CLI `--selector` flag

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| labels | scorecard-defined or custom labels that [select](#selecting-tests) which tests to run
```

### Command Args

The scorecard command has the following syntax:
```
operator-sdk alpha scorecard [bundle path] | [bundle image name] [flags]
```

The scorecard requires a positional argument that holds either the
on-disk path to your operator bundle or the name of a bundle image.

> **NOTE:** For further information about the flags see the [CLI documentation][cli-scorecard].

Reviewer: Using a bolded "NOTE" is unnecessary for something that flows from previous context:
```suggestion
For further information about the flags see the [CLI documentation][cli-scorecard].
```

## Selecting Tests

> Scorecard users can specify a `--selector` CLI flag to filter which 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tests are selected by setting the `--selector` CLI flag to
```

> tests it will execute.  If a selector flag is not supplied, then all 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a set of label strings.  If a selector flag is not supplied, then all 
```

the tests within the scorecard configuration file are executed.

Tests are executed serially, one after the other, with test results 

> being aggregated by scorecard to present back to the end user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
being aggregated by scorecard and written to stdout.
```

To select a single test (`basic-check-spec-test`) you would enter the
following:
```sh
$ operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=test=basic-check-spec-test
```

To select a suite of tests, olm in this case, you would specify
a label that is used by all the OLM tests:
```sh

> operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=suite=olm

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector=suite=olm
```

```

To select multiple tests, you could specify them as follows:
```sh

> operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector='test in (basic-check-spec-test,olm-bundle-validation-test)'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ operator-sdk scorecard -o text --selector='test in (basic-check-spec-test,olm-bundle-validation-test)'
```

| Provided APIs have validation |This test verifies that the CRDs for the provided CRs contain a validation section and that there is validation for each spec and status field detected in the CR. | olm-crds-have-validation |
| Owned CRDs Have Resources Listed | This test makes sure that the CRDs for each CR provided via the `cr-manifest` option have a `resources` subsection in the [`owned` CRDs section][owned-crds] of the CSV. If the test detects used resources that are not listed in the resources section, it will list them in the suggestions at the end of the test. | olm-crds-have-resources |
| Spec Fields With Descriptors | This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' spec sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in the CSV.| olm-spec-descriptors-test |
| Status Fields With Descriptors | This test verifies that every field in the Custom Resources' status sections have a corresponding descriptor listed in the CSV.| olm-status-descriptors-test |

## Scorecard Output

> Users can specify the `--output` flag to define the scorecard results 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `--output` flag specifies the scorecard results output format.
```

> output format.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### JSON format

See an example of the JSON format produced by a scorecard test:

```json
{
  "metadata": {
    "creationTimestamp": null
  },
  "log": "",
  "results": [
    {
      "name": "basic-check-spec",
      "description": "Custom Resource has a Spec Block",
      "state": "pass"
    }
  ]
}
```

### Text format

See an example of the text format produced by a scorecard test:

```
	basic-check-spec                    : pass
	CR: 
	Labels: 
```

> **NOTE** The results are done using the type [ScorecardOutput](https://godoc.org/github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha2#ScorecardOutput). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**NOTE** The output format spec matches the [`ScorecardOutput`](https://godoc.org/github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pkg/apis/scorecard/v1alpha2#ScorecardOutput) type layout.
```

## Exit Status

The scorecard return code is 1 if any of the tests executed did not 
pass and 0 if all selected tests pass.

## Extending the Scorecard with Custom Tests

> Scorecard will execute custom tests if 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scorecard will execute custom tests if they follow these mandated conventions:
```

> the custom tests following some mandated conventions including:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
